# Overview
Django is a web framework powered by python that was built so back-end developers have an easy interface to deploys apps. For this project my goal was to learn my first web framework and deploy an application using it. I've been curious to know how languages like python or c++ can be used in an application and deployed, and now I have my first look into that. 

The application I wrote is a very simple music player. It randomly plays MP3 files from a static folder and gathers information from them. The user can play, puase, or skip a song and if they want more information about the song, can click 'show information' and got to a new page that has dynamically gathered information about the song from the MP3 file. To start the test server on your computer, initialy you need to download django and run 'djago-admin runserver'. Once you've run this, there will be a file created in your folder called 'manage.py'. This python file takes over as the new django-admin and the next time you wan to run the server you run 'python manage.py runserver' instead of 'django-admin runserver'. If you're using VSCode you could also 'run without debugging' but I prefer the terminal. 

The files that hold the majority of my input code are views.py, urls.py, tests.py, and utils.py.
The views.py file handles incoming and outgoing HTTP requests through functions that render HTML templates. It processes and passes data to the templates when the page is initially rendered. The urls.py file defines the URL patterns for Django and maps URL paths to specific view functions. It directs incoming requests to the right view based on the URL that was requested. The tests.py file is for creating tests for your app. To run the tests run 'python mange.py test'. The utils.py file contains functions that perform common or repetitive tasks that are used across the application. These functions help to keep the code more organized by keeping shared logic in one place.

[Software Demo Video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-xi2-o3nKNs)

# Web Pages

The html files that are used in a django project are called templates. In this project there are 2: index.html and song-info.html. The index.html is loaded first when the server is set up because the path that has defined it is 'path('', views.my_view, name='index')'. The first parameter corresponds to the route, so since this one is blank, index.html is loaded when the server page is launched. On the index.html page information is dynamically generated by selecting a random song and playing it. User input can then pause/play or skip the song. The second page can be transitioned to by clicking the 'show information' button. On the index.html file there is a tag with the following: "{% url 'song_info' %}?file_name={{ file_name }}". The {%%} syntax is how you tell django to do somthing within a template. In this case, it triggers a request to the urls.py file to go to the corresponding url pattern. Once in the song-info.html file, information is dynamically generated from the MP3 files to display to the user. You can go back to the first page by clicking back. 

# Development Environment

In order to develop and learn this software, the tools I used were YouTube tutorials, the terminal, and Django. I watched a YouTube tutorial that set up a mini project called storfront. It showed me how to start a new project from the terminal and the basics of what the files meant. A django project is innitially started using several commands in the terminal, so I got comfortable using it. The biggest tool for this project was obviously the web framework django that creates the outline and deploys the application.

The main programming language used is python. Python is a high-level object-oriented programming language that is frequently used for web development. In django, python is what powers the backend, so it does things like route the URL, handle user input, and interact with a database. A library I used for this project is mutagen. It handles audio metadata which I needed for this project to extract information from the MP3 files. 

# Useful Websites

* [Programming with Mosh: Python Django Tutorial for Beginners](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rHux0gMZ3Eg)
* [W3 Schools: Django Tutorials](https://www.w3schools.com/django/)

# Future Work

* Less time in tutorials so there is more time for the actual project.
* Look at classsmates submissions to see if they have helpful resourses under "Usefule Websites".
* Follow outlined schedule more closely. 